welcome back creatures right here back
another episode of San Diego birla can't
believe it's already at that time but
the pumpkin ales are out last year I
want to review this one I waited too
long and when I went to review it wasn't
very fresh we're going to take a look at
it fresh this year so shipyards smashed
pumpkin ale it's a big nine percent pure
pumpkin ale I remember a lot of people
liking it last year so I want to make
sure I got a bottle fresh this year to
review even though I really don't feel
like drinking pumpkin ales yet because
it's still very warm out so let's get
this one poorly I've had this a couple
times to that last couple years pours
out very clear it's definitely going to
be filtered a nice dark golden color
into light orange you get about three
quarters of a slightly off-white head a
good amount of carbonation coming up
let's get the aroma yeah it's got a lot
going on you pick up the actual pumpkin
character you pick up the pumpkin spices
and you pick up a nice readiness as well
that malt character comes through I'd
say that nut makes standing out to me
the most you get a little cinnamon
underneath that a little bit of that
allspice character in there and just
that your typical pumpkin spices are
certainly present on the nose and nine
percent that heads pretty much gone on
the are some alcohol eggs on here you
know smells really nice so let's dig in
Cheers
that's a really nicely done pumpkin hill
up front wasn't in a ton of flavor but
wow nude palette just really turns on
the flavor and it finishes really nice
III disappears really balance between
the mult character the spice character
and the pumpkin character it's it's
impressive so far ones we got a bit more
though so up front on this beer actually
get some bitterness and they talk about
using Willamette and hollow shell hops
that kind of help balance out the beer
at nine percent it's definitely not
overly sweet least not at the cooler
temperatures that's nice but definitely
throw the tongue bitterness earthy
bitterness the works really well a
little bit of like a grassy note too but
mostly just this kind of really earthy
woody kind of character up front then
transitions into big sweetness big
sweetbreads life at a caramel malt or at
least caramel kind of flavor coming
through I almost a brown sugar character
and then midway through the palette
those spices really kick in you're
getting the allspice cinnamon the Nutmeg
and that kind of helps that sweetness
kind of back off a bit and then as it
finishes towards the end the actual
pumpkin flavor comes through which is a
really nice it's not just a pumpkin
spice character it's actually got you a
real pumpkin flavor in there and as that
pumpkin character fades the beer dries
out really nicely the sweetness takes a
backseat to the actual pumpkin flavor
and the alcohol kind of comes forward
it's not super boozy I you kind of feel
the alcohol you don't you taste just
just a tiny bit it's pretty well masked
I mean there's a lot going on this is a
really really well done pumpkin ale I
recommend getting it fresh while you can
taste all those really intense pumpkin
characteristics to it it's it's got the
nice pretty crustiness that you get from
the pumpkin pie actual pumpkin some
sweetness you know some kind of sugary
notes in there it's it's what you want
from the pumpkin ale don't know if a
quiet tops pumpkin
for me because kind of lacks that that
creamy sort of vanilla character that
pumpkin has but this is this is right
there up there with I'm gonna go with an
a recommended if you want to check out a
great pumpkin ale at least one that's
available you know probably most parts
of the country I mean this is the east
coast beer from Maine than we actually
get out here from shipyards so that's
going to wrap up this review definitely
check this one out until next time
please comment subscribe Cheers